Add documentation for catching provider events (#5886)
ethereum/web3.js: docs/docs/guides/web3_providers_guide/events_listening.md

---
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_label: 'Providers Events Listening'
---

# Providers Events Listening

> Some providers are, by design, always connected. And so they can communicate changes with the user through events. Actually, among the 3 providers, `HttpProvider` is the only one that does not support event. And the rest 2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some providers are, by design, always connected and so they can communicate changes with the user through events. Actually among the 3 providers, `HttpProvider` is the only one that does not support events and the other 2:
```

Author: Actually, a sentence can start with 'And' :smile: 
https://www.quora.com/Is-it-grammatically-appropriate-to-put-and-after-a-period#:~:text=Yes%2C%20it%20is.,occur%20in%20sentence%2Dinitial%20position.

And we put a comma after "Actually" (https://www.mmmenglish.com/2019/11/08/4-ways-to-use-actually/)

However, it seems better to use here "the other" instead of "the rest". 

Thanks,

Reviewer: you are correct, i think in terms of reading the sentence it flows better without ending the sentence with the period but to continue but this is a nitpick from me 😄

[WebSocketProvider](/api/web3-providers-ws/class/WebSocketProvider) and [IpcProvider](/api/web3-providers-ipc/class/IpcProvider) enable the user to listen to emitted events.

> Actually, the events can be categorized as follow ([according to EIP 1193](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193#rationale)):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actually, the events can be categorized as followed ([according to EIP 1193](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193#rationale)):
```

Author: They say the correct form is `as follows`. I will add the `s` :smile: 
https://textranch.com/18479/are-as-follows/or/are-as-followed/

-   Communicate arbitrary messages: `message`
-   Changes to the Provider’s ability to make RPC requests;
    -   `connect`
    -   `disconnect`
-   Common Client and/or Wallet state changes that any non-trivial application must handle:
    -   `chainChanged`
    -   `accountsChanged`

Below a sample code for listening and remove listening to EIP 1193 events:

```ts
import { Web3 } from `web3`

const web3 = new Web3(/* PROVIDER*/);

web3.provider.on('message',()=>{
  // ...
})

web3.provider.on('connect',()=>{
  // ...
})

web3.provider.on('disconnect',()=>{
  // ...
})

web3.provider.on('accountsChanged',()=>{
  // ...
})

web3.provider.on('chainChanged',()=>{
  // ...
})

> 

Reviewer 2: also we can add `error` event here
